Mozilla InvestiGator Deployment and Configuration Documentation
===============================================================

.. sectnum::
.. contents:: Table of Contents

This document describes the steps to build and configure a MIG platform.
MIG has 6 major components. The Postgresql database and RabbitMQ relay are
external dependencies, and while this document shows one way of deploying them,
you are free to use your own method. All other components (scheduler, api,
agents and clients) require specific compilation and configuration steps that
are explained in this document.

Due to the fast changing pace of Go, MIG and its third party packages, we do
not currently provide binary packages. You will have to compile the components
yourself, which is explained below.

A complete environment should be configured in the following order:

1. retrieve the source and prepare your build environment
2. deploy the postgresql database
3. create a PKI
4. deploy the rabbitmq relay
5. build, configure and deploy the scheduler
6. build, configure and deploy the api
7. build the clients and create an investigator
8. configure and deploy agents

Prepare a build environment
------------------------------

Install **Go 1.5** or later from your package manager , via `gvm`_ or `from source`_.

.. _`gvm`: https://github.com/moovweb/gvm

.. _`from source`: http://golang.org/doc/install/source

You **must** use Go 1.5 or later because MIG uses vendoring that isn't available in prior
versions.

.. code:: bash

    $ go version
    go version go1.5 linux/amd64

As with any Go setup, make sure your GOPATH is exported, for example by setting
it to `$HOME/go`

.. code:: bash

    $ export GOPATH="$HOME/go"
    $ mkdir $GOPATH

Then retrieve MIG's source code using go get:

.. code:: bash

    $ go get mig.ninja/mig

Go get will place MIG under `$GOPATH/src/mig.ninja/mig`. Change directory to
this path and build the components. Note that, if you're on a Debian or Ubuntu
box, you can run `make deb-server` directly which will build the scheduler, api
and workers into a single DEB package. Otherwise, use the following make
commands:

.. code:: bash

    $ make mig-scheduler
    $ make mig-api
    $ make worker-agent-intel
    $ make mig-runner

Or just run `make` that will build everything and runs tests as well.

Note: running `make` will build everything including the mig-console which
requires **readline** to be installed (`readline-devel` on rhel/fedora or
`libreadline-dev` on debian/ubuntu).

.. code:: bash

	$ make

Deploy the Postgresql database
------------------------------

Install postgres 9.3+ on a server and copy the scripts
`database/createlocaldb.sh` and `database/schema.sql`. Make sure you have sudo
access to the server and run the script (or run the commands from createlocaldb.sh
manually).

.. code:: bash

	$ ./createlocaldb.sh 
	Created user migadmin with password 'l1bZowe8fy1'
	Created user migapi with password 'p4oid18'
	Created user migscheduler with password '48Cm12Taodf928wqojdlsa1981'
	MIG Database created successfully.

This creates a local database called `mig` with the relevant admin, api and
scheduler users. Make sure you save the passwords generated by the script in a
safe location, you'll need them later.

To verify the DB, use the psql command line:

.. code:: bash

	$ sudo su - postgres
	postgres@jaffatower:~$ psql
	psql (9.4.4)
	Type "help" for help.

	postgres=# \c mig
	You are now connected to database "mig" as user "postgres".
	mig=# \d
					  List of relations
	 Schema |         Name         |   Type   |  Owner   
	--------+----------------------+----------+----------
	 public | actions              | table    | migadmin
	 public | agents               | table    | migadmin
	 public | agents_stats         | table    | postgres
	 public | agtmodreq            | table    | migadmin
	 public | commands             | table    | migadmin
	 public | invagtmodperm        | table    | migadmin
	 public | investigators        | table    | migadmin
	 public | investigators_id_seq | sequence | postgres
	 public | modules              | table    | migadmin
	 public | signatures           | table    | migadmin
	(10 rows)

Deploying on a remote database, like AWS RDS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you are using a remote database, create a database and an admin user, then
modify the variables at the top of `src/mig/database/createremotedb.sh`_ and
run it. The script will create the DB schema and output the credentials for
users `migscheduler` and `migapi`. These credentials need to be references in
the MIG Scheduler and API configuration files.

.. _`src/mig/database/createremotedb.sh`: https://github.com/mozilla/mig/blob/master/src/mig/database/createremotedb.sh

Edit the variables in the script `createremotedb.sh`:

.. code:: bash

	$ vim createremotedb.sh

	PGDATABASE='mig'
	PGUSER='migadmin'
	PGPASS='MYDATABASEPASSWORD'
	PGHOST='192.168.0.1'
	PGPORT=5432

Then run it against your database server. Make sure that the Postgresql client
command line `psql` is installed locally.

.. code:: bash

	$ which psql
	/usr/bin/psql

	$ bash createremotedb.sh

	[... bunch of sql queries ...]

	created users:
		migscheduler	4NvQFdwdQ8UOU4ekEOgWDWi3gzG5cg2X
		migapi			xcJyJhLg1cldIp7eXcxv0U-UqV80tMb-

Create a PKI
------------

Skip this step if you want to reuse an existing PKI. MIG will need a server
certificate for RabbitMQ, and client certificates for agents, schedulers and
workers. The PKI is only used to protect connection to the public AMQP endpoint.

Use the script is `tools/create_mig_ca.sh` to generate a new CA and signed
certificates for each component.

Create a new directory that will hold the CA, copy the script in it, and run it.
The script will prompt for one piece of information: the public DNS of the
rabbitmq relay. It's important that you set this to the correct value to allow
AMQP clients to validate the rabbitmq certificate correctly.

.. code:: bash

	$ mkdir migca
	$ cd migca
	$ cp $GOPATH/src/mig.ninja/mig/tools/create_mig_ca.sh .
	$ bash create_mig_ca.sh
	[...]
	enter the public dns name of the rabbitmq server agents will connect to> mymigrelay.example.net
	[...]
	$ ls -l
	total 76
	-rw-r--r-- 1 julien julien 5163 Sep  9 00:06 agent.crt
	-rw-r--r-- 1 julien julien 1033 Sep  9 00:06 agent.csr
	-rw-r--r-- 1 julien julien 1704 Sep  9 00:06 agent.key
	drwxr-xr-x 3 julien julien 4096 Sep  9 00:06 ca
	-rw-r--r-- 1 julien julien 3608 Sep  9 00:06 create_mig_ca.sh
	-rw-r--r-- 1 julien julien 2292 Sep  9 00:06 openssl.cnf
	-rw-r--r-- 1 julien julien 5161 Sep  9 00:06 rabbitmq.crt
	-rw-r--r-- 1 julien julien 1029 Sep  9 00:06 rabbitmq.csr
	-rw-r--r-- 1 julien julien 1704 Sep  9 00:06 rabbitmq.key
	-rw-r--r-- 1 julien julien 5183 Sep  9 00:06 scheduler.crt
	-rw-r--r-- 1 julien julien 1045 Sep  9 00:06 scheduler.csr
	-rw-r--r-- 1 julien julien 1704 Sep  9 00:06 scheduler.key
	-rw-r--r-- 1 julien julien 5169 Sep  9 00:06 worker.crt
	-rw-r--r-- 1 julien julien 1033 Sep  9 00:06 worker.csr
	-rw-r--r-- 1 julien julien 1704 Sep  9 00:06 worker.key

These certificates can now be used in each component.

Deploy the Rabbitmq relay
-------------------------

Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Install the RabbitMQ server from your distribution's packaging system. If your
distribution does not provide a RabbitMQ package, install `erlang` from yum or
apt, and then install RabbitMQ using the packages from rabbitmq.com

Scripted RabbitMQ Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The script in `tools/create_rabbitmq_config.sh` can be run against a local
instance of rabbitmq to configure the necessary users and permissions.

.. code:: bash

	$ bash createrabbitmqconfig.sh 

	[ ... ]

	[ ok ] Restarting message broker: rabbitmq-server.
	rabbitmq configured with the following users:
	  admin       5IRociqhefiehekjqqhfeq
	  scheduler   MM8972olkjwqashrieygrh
	  agent       p1938oanvdjknxcbveufif
	  worker      80912lsdkjj718tdfxmlqx

	copy ca.crt and rabbitmq.{crt,key} into /etc/rabbitmq/
	then run $ service rabbitmq-server restart

Save the credentials in a safe location, we will need them later.

Copy the ca.crt, rabbitmq.key and rabbitmq.crt we generate in the PKI into
/etc/rabbitmq and restart the service. You should see Beam listen on port
5671.

.. code:: bash

	$ netstat -taupen|grep 5671
	tcp6	0	0	:::5671		:::*	LISTEN	110	658831	11467/beam.smp  

If you care about the detail of Rabbitmq's configuration, read the manual
configuration section in the appendix at the end of this document.

Scheduler Configuration
-----------------------

If you deploy the scheduler using the package build by the `deb-server` target,
a template configuration will be placed in /etc/mig/scheduler.cfg. Otherwise,
you can find one in `conf/scheduler.cfg.inc`.

If you use `deb-server`, simply `dpkg -i` the package and the scheduler will be
installed into /opt/mig/bin/mig-scheduler, its configuration kept in /etc/mig.

If you build your own binary, get one by running `make mig-scheduler`.

Start by copying the ca.crt, scheduler.key and scheduler.crt we generated in the
PKI into the /etc/mig/ folder.

Then edit the configuration file to replace the DB and RabbitMQ parameters with
the ones that we obtained in previous steps. The default configurations provided
for both Postgres and RabbitMQ are purposedly wrong and need to be replaced,
otherwise the scheduler will fail to connect. Below is an example configuration
that would work with the setup we have prepared.

.. code::

	[agent]
		; timeout controls the inactivity period after which
		; agents are marked offline
		timeout = "60m"

		; heartbeatfreq maps to the agent configuration and helps
		; the scheduler detect duplicate agents, and some other things
		heartbeatfreq = "5m"

		; whitelist contains a list of agent queues that are allowed
		; to send heartbeats and receive commands
		whitelist = "/var/cache/mig/agents_whitelist.txt"

		; detect endpoints that are running multiple agents
		detectmultiagents = true

		; issue kill orders to duplicate agents running on the same endpoint
		killdupagents = true

	; the collector continuously pulls
	; pending messages from the spool
	[collector]
		; frequency at which the collector runs,
		; default is to run every second
		freq = "1s"

	; the periodic runs less often that
	; the collector and does cleanup and DB updates
	[periodic]
		; frequency at which the periodic jobs run
		freq = "87s"

		; delete finished actions, commands and invalids after
		; this period has passed
		deleteafter = "360h"

		; run a rabbitmq unused queues cleanup job at this frequency
		; this is DB & amqp intensive so don't run it too often
		queuescleanupfreq = "24h"

	[directories]
		spool = "/var/cache/mig/"
		tmp = "/var/tmp/"

	[postgres]
		host = "192.168.1.240"
		port = 5432
		dbname = "mig"
		user = "migscheduler"
		password = "4NvQFdwdQ8UOU4ekEOgWDWi3gzG5cg2X"
		sslmode = "disable"
		maxconn = 10

	[mq]
		host  = "rabbitmq.mig.example.net"
		port  = 5671
		user  = "scheduler"
		pass  = "MM8972olkjwqashrieygrh"
		vhost = "mig"

	; TLS options
		usetls  = true
		cacert  = "/etc/mig/ca.crt"
		tlscert = "/etc/mig/scheduler.crt"
		tlskey  = "/etc/mig/scheduler.key"

	; AMQP options
	; timeout defaults to 10 minutes
	; keep this higher than the agent heartbeat value
		timeout = "10m"

	[logging]
		mode = "stdout" ; stdout | file | syslog
		level = "debug"

	; for file logging
	;   file = "mig_scheduler.log"

	; for syslog, logs go into local3
	;    host = "localhost"
	;    port = 514
	;    protocol = "udp"

The sample above needs to be tweaked further to match your environment. This
document explains each section in Appendix B. For now, let's test our setup
with this basic conf by running mig-scheduler in foreground, as root.

.. code:: bash

	# /opt/mig/bin/mig-scheduler 
	Initializing Scheduler context...OK
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [debug] leaving initChannels()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [debug] leaving initDirectories()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [info] Database connection opened
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [debug] leaving initDB()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [info] AMQP connection opened
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [debug] leaving initRelay()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [debug] leaving makeSecring()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [info] no key found in database. generating a private key for user migscheduler
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [info] created migscheduler identity with ID %!d(float64=1) and key ID A8E1ED58512FCD9876DBEA4FEA513B95032D9932
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [debug] leaving makeSchedulerInvestigator()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [debug] loaded scheduler private key from database
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [debug] leaving makeSecring()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [info] Loaded scheduler investigator with key id A8E1ED58512FCD9876DBEA4FEA513B95032D9932
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [debug] leaving initSecring()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [info] mig.ProcessLog() routine started
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [info] processNewAction() routine started
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [info] sendCommands() routine started
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [info] terminateCommand() routine started
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [info] updateAction() routine started
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [info] agents heartbeats listener initialized
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [debug] leaving startHeartbeatsListener()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [info] agents heartbeats listener routine started
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310530 - - [info] agents results listener initialized
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310530 - - [debug] leaving startResultsListener()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [info] agents results listener routine started
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [info] collector routine started
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [info] periodic routine started
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [info] queue cleanup routine started
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 - - - [info] killDupAgents() routine started
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310531 - - [debug] initiating spool inspection
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310532 - - [info] initiating periodic run
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310532 - - [debug] leaving cleanDir()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310532 - - [debug] leaving cleanDir()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310531 - - [debug] leaving loadNewActionsFromDB()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310531 - - [debug] leaving loadNewActionsFromSpool()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310531 - - [debug] leaving loadReturnedCommands()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310531 - - [debug] leaving expireCommands()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310531 - - [debug] leaving spoolInspection()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310532 - - [debug] leaving markOfflineAgents()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310533 - - [debug] QueuesCleanup(): found 0 offline endpoints between 2015-09-08 01:25:47.292598629 +0000 UTC and now
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310533 - - [info] QueuesCleanup(): done in 7.389363ms
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310533 - - [debug] leaving QueuesCleanup()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310532 - - [debug] leaving markIdleAgents()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310532 - - [debug] CountNewEndpoints() took 7.666476ms to run
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310532 - - [debug] CountIdleEndpoints() took 99.925426ms to run
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310532 - - [debug] SumIdleAgentsByVersion() took 99.972162ms to run
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310532 - - [debug] SumOnlineAgentsByVersion() took 100.037988ms to run
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310532 - - [debug] CountFlappingEndpoints() took 100.134112ms to run
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310532 - - [debug] CountOnlineEndpoints() took 99.976176ms to run
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310532 - - [debug] CountDoubleAgents() took 99.959133ms to run
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310532 - - [debug] CountDisappearedEndpoints() took 99.900215ms to run
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310532 - - [debug] leaving computeAgentsStats()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310532 - - [debug] leaving detectMultiAgents()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310532 - - [debug] leaving periodic()
	2015/09/09 04:25:47 4883372310532 - - [info] periodic run done in 110.647479ms

Among the debug logs, we can see that the scheduler successfully connected
to both PostgresSQL and RabbitMQ. It detected that no scheduler key was
present in the database and created one with Key ID
"A8E1ED58512FCD9876DBEA4FEA513B95032D9932". It then proceeded to wait for
work to do, waking up regularly to perform maintenance tasks.

This working scheduler allows us to move on to the next component: the API.

API configuration
-----------------

MIG's REST API is the interface between investigators and the rest of the
infrastructure. It is also accessed by agents to discover their public IP.

The API needs to be deployed like a normal web application, preferably behind a
reverse proxy that handles TLS.

.. code::

	{investigators}-\
	                 --> {reverse proxy} -> {api} -> {database} -> {scheduler} -> {rabbitmq} -> {agents}
	{agents}--------/

For this documentation, we will assume that the API listens on its local IP,
which is 192.168.1.150, on port 51664. The public endpoint of the api is
`api.mig.example.net`. A configuration could be defined as follow:

.. code::

	[authentication]
		# turn this on after initial setup, once you have at least
		# one investigator created
		enabled = off

		# when validating token timestamps, accept a timestamp that is
		# within this duration of the local clock
		tokenduration = 10m

	[server]
		# local listening ip
		ip = "192.168.1.150"

		# local listening port
		port = 51664

		# public location of the API endpoint
		host = "https://api.mig.example.net"

		# API base route, all endpoints are below this path
		# ex: http://localhost:12345/api/v1/action/create/
		#     |------<host>--------|<base>|--<endpoint>--|
		baseroute = "/api/v1"
                
                # informs the api where it should obtain the clients public ip address
                # from. the default if unset is "peer".
                #
                # use the X-Forwarded-For header, the trailing integer
                # indicates an offset from the end of the list of addresses in
                # x-forwarded-for to use as the client public ip:
                #clientpublicip = x-forwarded-for:0
                # use socket peer address:
                #clientpublicip = peer

	[postgres]
		host = "192.168.1.240"
		port = 5432
		dbname = "mig"
		user = "migapi"
		password = "p4QfcStzn8JIH4T4Tfr_kUzYHiPher1H"
		sslmode = "disable"

	[logging]
		mode = "stdout" ; stdout | file | syslog
		level = "debug"

	; for file logging
	;   file = "mig_api.log"

	; for syslog, logs go into local3
	;    host = "localhost"
	;    port = 514
	;    protocol = "udp"

Note in the configuration above that authentication is disabled for now.

The Postgres credentials are taken from the user/password we generated for
user `migapi` during the database configuration.

Under the `[server]` section:

* `ip` and `port` define the socket the API will be listening on.
* `host` is the public URL of the API, that clients will be connecting to
* `baseroute` is the location of the base of the API, without the trailing slash.
* `clientpublicip` tells where API where to get the clients public IP address.

Ensure clientpublicip is set based on your environment. If clients are terminated
directly on the API, peer can be used. If a load balancer or other device terminates
connections from clients and adds the address to X-Forwarded-For, x-forwarded-for
can be used. The integer trailing X-Forwarded-For specifies the offset from the end
of the list of IPs in the header to use to extract the IP. For example,
x-forwarded-for:0 would get the last IP in a list in that header, x-forwarded-for:1
would get the second last, etc. Set this based on the number of forwarding devices
you have between the client and the API.

In this example, to reach the home of the API, we would point our browser to
`https://api.mig.example.net/api/v1/`.

A sample Nginx reverse proxy configuration is shown below:

.. code::

	server {
		listen 443;
		ssl on;

		root /var/www;
		index index.html index.htm;
		server_name api.mig.example.net;
		client_max_body_size 200M;

		# certs sent to the client in SERVER HELLO are concatenated in ssl_certificate
		ssl_certificate        /etc/nginx/certs/api.mig.example.net.crt;
		ssl_certificate_key    /etc/nginx/certs/api.mig.example.net.key;
		ssl_session_timeout    5m;
		ssl_session_cache      shared:SSL:50m;

		# Diffie-Hellman parameter for DHE ciphersuites, recommended 2048 bits
		ssl_dhparam        /etc/nginx/certs/dhparam;

		# modern configuration. tweak to your needs.
		ssl_protocols TLSv1.1 TLSv1.2;
		ssl_ciphers 'ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384:ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384:DHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:DHE-DSS-AES128-GCM-SHA256:kEDH+AESGCM:ECDHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256:ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-SHA256:ECDHE-RSA-AES128-SHA:ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-SHA:ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA384:ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-SHA384:ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA:ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-SHA:DHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256:DHE-RSA-AES128-SHA:DHE-DSS-AES128-SHA256:DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA256:DHE-DSS-AES256-SHA:DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA:!aNULL:!eNULL:!EXPORT:!DES:!RC4:!3DES:!MD5:!PSK';
		ssl_prefer_server_ciphers on;

		location /api/v1/ {
			proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $remote_addr;
			proxy_pass http://192.168.1.150:51664/api/v1/;
		}
	}

If you're going to enable HTTPS in front of the API, make sure to use a trusted
certificate. Agents don't connect to untrusted certificates. If you can't get
one, or don't want to for a test environment, don't use HTTPS and configure the
API and Nginx to use HTTP instead. Credentials are never passed to the API, only
PGP tokens, so the worst you could expose is investigation results.

You can test that the API works properly by performing a request to the
dashboard endpoint. It should return a JSON document with all counters at zero,
since we don't have any agent connected yet.

.. code:: json

	$ curl https://jaffa.linuxwall.info/api/v1/dashboard | python -mjson.tool
	{
		"collection": {
			"version": "1.0",
			"href": "https://api.mig.example.net/api/v1/dashboard",
			"items": [
				{
					"href": "https://api.mig.example.net/api/v1/dashboard",
					"data": [
						{
							"name": "online agents",
							"value": 0
						},
						{
							"name": "online agents by version",
							"value": null
						},
						{
							"name": "online endpoints",
							"value": 0
						},
						{
							"name": "idle agents",
							"value": 0
						},
						{
							"name": "idle agents by version",
							"value": null
						},
						{
							"name": "idle endpoints",
							"value": 0
						},
						{
							"name": "new endpoints",
							"value": 0
						},
						{
							"name": "endpoints running 2 or more agents",
							"value": 0
						},
						{
							"name": "disappeared endpoints",
							"value": 0
						},
						{
							"name": "flapping endpoints",
							"value": 0
						}
					]
				}
			],
			"template": {},
			"error": {}
		}
	}

Build the clients and create an investigator
--------------------------------------------

MIG has multiple command line clients that can be used to interact with the API
and run investigations or view results. The two main clients are `mig`, a
command line tool that can run investigations quickly, and `mig-console`, a
readline console that can also run investigations but browse through passed
investigations as well and manage investigators. We will use `mig-console` to
create our first investigator.

Here we will assume you already have GnuPG installed, and that you generate a
keypair for yourself (see the `doc on gnupg.org
<https://www.gnupg.org/gph/en/manual.html#AEN26>`_).
You should be able to access your PGP Fingerprint using this command:

.. code::

	$ gpg --fingerprint myinvestigator@example.net

	pub   2048R/3B763E8F 2013-04-30
	Key fingerprint = E608 92BB 9BD8 9A69 F759  A1A0 A3D6 5217 3B76 3E8F
	uid                  My Investigator <myinvestigator@example.net>
	sub   2048R/8026F39F 2013-04-30

Next, create the client configuration file in `$HOME/.migrc`. Below is a sample
you can reuse with your own values.

.. code::

	$ cat ~/.migrc
	[api]
		url = "https://api.mig.example.net/api/v1/"
	[gpg]
		home = "/home/myuser/.gnupg/"
		keyid = "E60892BB9BD89A69F759A1A0A3D652173B763E8F"
        [targets]
                macro = allonline:status='online'
                macro = idleandonline:status='online' OR status='idle'

The targets section is optional and provides the ability to specify
short forms of your own targeting strings. In the example above, 
`allonline` or `idleandonline` could be used as target arguments.

Make sure have the dev library of readline installed (`readline-devel` on
rhel/fedora or `libreadline-dev` on debian/ubuntu) and `go get` the binary from
its source repository

.. code::

	$ sudo apt-get install libreadline-dev
	$ go get mig.ninja/mig/client/mig-console
	$ $GOPATH/bin/mig-console

	## ##                                     _.---._     .---.
	# # # /-\ ---||  |    /\         __...---' .---. '---'-.   '.
	#   #|   | / ||  |   /--\    .-''__.--' _.'( | )'.  '.  '._ :
	#   # \_/ ---| \_ \_/    \ .'__-'_ .--'' ._'---'_.-.  '.   '-'.
		 ###                         ~ -._ -._''---. -.    '-._   '.
		  # |\ |\    /---------|          ~ -.._ _ _ _ ..-_ '.  '-._''--.._
		  # | \| \  / |- |__ | |                       -~ -._  '-.  -. '-._''--.._.--''.
		 ###|  \  \/  ---__| | |                            ~ ~-.__     -._  '-.__   '. '.
			  #####                                               ~~ ~---...__ _    ._ .' '.
			  #      /\  --- /-\ |--|----                                    ~  ~--.....--~
			  # ### /--\  | |   ||-\  //
			  #####/    \ |  \_/ |  \//__
	+------
	| Agents & Endpoints summary:
	| * 0 online agents on 0 endpoints
	| * 0 idle agents on 0 endpoints
	| * 0 endpoints are running 2 or more agents
	| * 0 endpoints appeared over the last 7 days
	| * 0 endpoints disappeared over the last 7 days
	| * 0 endpoints have been flapping
	| Online agents by version:
	| Idle agents by version:
	|
	| Latest Actions:
	| ----    ID      ---- + ----         Name         ---- + -Sent- + ----    Date     ---- + ---- Investigators ----
	+------

	Connected to https://api.mig.example.net/api/v1/. Exit with ctrl+d. Type help for help.
	mig>

The console wait for input on the `mig>` prompt. Enter `help` is you want to
explore all the available functions. For now, we will only create a new
investigator in the database.

The investigator will be defined with its public key, so the first thing we
need to do is export our public key to a local file that can be given to the
console during the creation process.

.. code::

	$ gpg --export -a myinvestigator@example.net > /tmp/myinvestigator_pubkey.asc

Then in the console prompt, enter the following commands:

- `create investigator`
- enter a name, such as `Bob The Investigator`
- choose yes to make the investigator an administrator, which is usually the case if it is the first one added
- enter the path to the public key `/tmp/myinvestigator_pubkey.asc`
- enter `y` to confirm the creation

The console should display "Investigator 'Bob The Investigator' successfully
created with ID 2". We can view the details of this new investigator by entering
`investigator 2` on the console prompt.

.. code::

        mig> investigator 2
        Entering investigator mode. Type exit or press ctrl+d to leave. help may help.
        Investigator 2 named 'Bob The Investigator'
        
        inv 2> details
        Investigator ID 2
        name     Bob The Investigator
        status   active
        admin    true
        key id   E60892BB9BD89A69F759A1A0A3D652173B763E8F
        created  2015-09-09 09:53:28.989481 -0400 EDT
        modified 2015-09-09 09:53:28.989481 -0400 EDT

MIG supports two levels of access for users: normal investigators and administrators.
Administrator have the ability to create and manage investigators, manage manifests
and manipulate mig-loader related functionality, in addition to being able to run
investigations like a standard user.

To make a user an administrator, specify ``yes`` when asked to if the user should be an
administrator while running ``create investigator``. You can make an existing user an
administrator using the ``setadmin`` command while viewing the investigator in the
console. Remember that to manipulate investigator privileges, the user you are using
to access MIG must be an administrator.

Enable API Authentication
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now that we have an active investigator created, we can enable authentication
in the API. Go back to the API server and modify the configuration in
`/etc/mig/api.cfg`.

.. code::

	[authentication]
		# turn this on after initial setup, once you have at least
		# one investigator created
		enabled = on

Since the user we create in the previous step was created as an administrator, we can now
use this user to add other investigators to the system.

Reopen the mig-console, and you will see the investigator name in the API logs:

.. code::

	2015/09/09 13:56:09 4885615083520 - - [info] src=192.168.1.243,192.168.1.1 auth=[Bob The Investigator 2] GET HTTP/1.0 /api/v1/dashboard resp_code=200 resp_size=600 user-agent=MIG Client console-20150826+62ea662.dev

The benefit of the PGP token approach is the API never needs access to private keys,
and thus a compromise of the API doesn't leak credentials of investigators.

This concludes the configuration of the server side of MIG. Next we need to
build agents that can be deployed across our infrastructure.

MIG loader Configuration
------------------------
At this point you will want to decide if you wish to use ``mig-loader`` to keep
your agents up to date on remote endpoints.

With mig-loader, instead of installing the agent on the systems you want to run
the agent on, you would install only mig-loader. mig-loader is a small binary
intended to be run from a periodic system such as cron. mig-loader will then
look after fetching the agent and installing it if it does not exist on the system,
and will look after upgrading the agent automatically if you want to publish new
agent updates. The upgrades can be controlled by a MIG administrator through the
MIG API and console tools.

For information on the loader, see `MIG LOADER`_ documentation. If you wish to
use mig-loader, read the `MIG LOADER`_ documentation to understand how the rest
of this guide fits into configuration with loader based deployment.

Agent Configuration
-------------------

The MIG Agent configuration must be prepared before build. The configuration is
hardwired into the agent, such that no external file is required to run it.

TLS Certificates, PGP public keys and configuration variables would normally
be stored in external files, that would make installing an agent on an endpoint
more complex. The approach of building all of the configuration parameters into
the agent means that we can ship a single binary that is self-sufficient. Go's
approach to statically built binary also helps greatly eliminate the need for
external dependencies. Once the agent is built, ship it to an endpoint, run it,
and you're done.

A template of agent configuration is in 'conf/mig-agent-conf.go.inc'. Copy this
to 'conf/mig-agent-conf.go' and edit the file. Make sure to respect Go syntax
format.

.. code:: bash

	$ go get mig.ninja/mig
	$ cd $GOPATH/src/mig.ninja/mig
	$ cp conf/mig-agent-conf.go.inc example.net.agents-conf.go
	$ vim conf/example.net.agents-conf.go

Later on, when you run 'make mig-agent', the Makefile will copy the agent
configuration to the agent source code, and build the binary. If the
configuration file is missing, Makefile will alert you. If you have an error in
the format of the file, the Go compiler will return a list of compilation errors
for you to fix.

AMQPS configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

TLS support between agents and rabbitmq is optional, but strongly recommended.
If you want to use TLS, you need to import the PEM encoded client certificate,
client key and CA certificate that we created in the PKI step further up into
'mig-agent-conf.go'.

1. **CACERT** must contain the PEM encoded certificate of the Root CA.

2. **AGENTCERT** must contain the PEM encoded client certificate of the agent.

3. **AGENTKEY** must contain the PEM encoded client certificate of the agent.

You also need to edit the **AMQPBROKER** variable to invoke **amqps** instead of
the regular amqp mode. You probably also want to change the port from 5672
(default amqp) to 5671 (default amqps).

In the AMQPBROKER parameter, we set the agent's RabbitMQ username and password
we generated in previous steps.

.. code:: go

	var AMQPBROKER string = "amqps://agent:p1938oanvdjknxcbveufif@rabbitmq.mig.example.net:5671/mig"

API Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Agents need to know the location of the API as it is used to discover their
public IP during startup.

.. code:: go

	var APIURL string = "https://api.mig.example.net/api/v1/"

Proxy support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The agent supports connecting to the relay via a CONNECT proxy. If proxies are
configured, it will attempt to use them before attemping a direct connection. The
agent will also attempt to use any proxy noted in the environment via the
`HTTP_PROXY` environment variable. A list of proxies can be manually
added to the configuration of the agent in the `PROXIES` parameters. Proxies can
also be specified in the agent configuration file, and will override any built-in
configuration.

An agent using a proxy will reference the name of the proxy in the environment
fields of the heartbeat sent to the scheduler.

Stat socket
~~~~~~~~~~~

The agent can establish a listening TCP socket on localhost for management
purpose. The list of supported operations can be obtained by sending the
keyword `help` to this socket.

.. code:: bash

	$ nc localhost 51664 <<< help

	Welcome to the MIG agent socket. The commands are:
	pid	returns the PID of the running agent

To obtain the PID of the running agent, use the following command:

.. code:: bash

	$ nc localhost 51664 <<< pid ; echo
	9792

Leave the `SOCKET` configuration variable empty to disable the stat socket.

Logging
~~~~~~~

The agent can log to stdout, to a file or to the system logging. On Windows,
the system logging is the Event log. On POSIX systems, it's syslog.

The `LOGGINGCONF` parameter is used to configure the proper logging level.

Access Control Lists
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The detail of how access control lists are created and managed is described in
`concepts: Access Control Lists`_. In this documentation, we focus on a basic
setup that grant access of all modules to all investigators, and restricts
what the scheduler key can do.

.. _`concepts: Access Control Lists`: concepts.rst

ACL are declared in JSON hardcoded into the AGENTACL variable of the agent
configuration. For now, we only create two ACLs: a `default` one that grants
access to all modules to two investigators, and an `agentdestroy` one that
grants access to the `agentdestroy` module to the scheduler.

The ACLs only references the fingerprint of the public key of each investigator
and a weight that describes how much permission each investigator is granted with.

.. code:: go

	// Control modules permissions by PGP keys
	var AGENTACL = [...]string{
		`{
			"default": {
				"minimumweight": 2,
				"investigators": {
					"Bob The Investigator": {
						"fingerprint": "E60892BB9BD89A69F759A1A0A3D652173B763E8F",
						"weight": 2
					},
					"Sam Axe": {
						"fingerprint": "FA5D79F95F7AF7097C3E83DA26A86D5E5885AC11",
						"weight": 2
					}
				}
			}
		}`,
	    `{
			"agentdestroy": {
				"minimumweight": 1,
				"investigators": {
					"MIG Scheduler": {
						"fingerprint": "A8E1ED58512FCD9876DBEA4FEA513B95032D9932",
						"weight": 1
					}
				}
			}
		}`,
	}

Note that the PGP key of the scheduler was created automatically when we
started the scheduler service for the first time. You can access its
fingerprint via the mig-console, as follow:

.. code::

	$ mig-console
	mig> investigator 1
	inv 1> details
	Investigator ID 1
	name     migscheduler
	status   active
	key id   A8E1ED58512FCD9876DBEA4FEA513B95032D9932
	created  2015-09-09 00:25:47.225086 -0400 EDT
	modified 2015-09-09 00:25:47.225086 -0400 EDT

You can also view its public key by entering `pubkey` in the prompt.

Investigators's public keys
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The public keys of all investigators must be listed in the `PUBLICPGPKEYS`
array. Each key is its own entry in the array. Since all investigators must
be created via the mig-console to have access to the API, the easiest way
to export their public keys is also via the mig-console.

.. code:: bash

	$ mig-console

	mig> investigator 2

	inv 2> pubkey
	-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
	Version: GnuPG v1

	mQENBFF/69EBCADe79sqUKJHXTMW3tahbXPdQAnpFWXChjI9tOGbgxmse1eEGjPZ
	QPFOPgu3O3iij6UOVh+LOkqccjJ8gZVLYMJzUQC+2RJ3jvXhti8xZ1hs2iEr65Rj
	zUklHVZguf2Zv2X9Er8rnlW5xzplsVXNWnVvMDXyzx0ufC00dDbCwahLQnv6Vqq8
	etc...

Then insert the whole armored pubkey, with header and footer, into the array.
Each key must be present in the PUBLICPGPKEYS array, enclosed with backticks.
The order is irrelevant.

.. code:: go

	// PGP public key that is authorized to sign actions
	var PUBLICPGPKEYS = [...]string{
	`-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
	Version: GnuPG v1 - myinvestigator@example.net

	mQENBFF/69EBCADe79sqUKJHXTMW3tahbXPdQAnpFWXChjI9tOGbgxmse1eEGjPZ
	=3tGV
	-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
	`,
	`
	-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
	Version: GnuPG v1. Name: sam.axe@example.net

	mQINBE5bjGABEACnT9K6MEbeDFyCty7KalsNnMjXH73kY4B8aJXbE6SSnRA3gWpa
	-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----`}

Customize the configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The agent has many other configuration parameters that you may want to
tweak before shipping it. Each of them is documented in the sample
configuration file.

Agent build instructions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Once the agent properly configured, you can build it using `make`. The
path to the customized configuration must be given in the `AGTCONF` make
variable. You can also set `BUILDENV` to the environment you're building
for, it is set to `dev` by default.

.. code:: bash

	$ make mig-agent AGTCONF=conf/example.net.agents-conf.go
	mkdir -p bin/linux/amd64
	echo building mig-agent for linux/amd64
	building mig-agent for linux/amd64
	if [ ! -r conf/linuxwall-mig-agent-conf.go ]; then echo "conf/linuxwall-mig-agent-conf.go configuration file does not exist" ; exit 1; fi
	# test if the agent configuration variable contains something different than the default value
	# and if so, replace the link to the default configuration with the provided configuration
	if [ conf/linuxwall-mig-agent-conf.go != "conf/mig-agent-conf.go.inc" ]; then rm mig-agent/configuration.go; cp conf/linuxwall-mig-agent-conf.go mig-agent/configuration.go; fi
	GOOS=linux GOARCH=amd64 GO15VENDOREXPERIMENT=1 go build  -o bin/linux/amd64/mig-agent-20150909+556e9c0.dev"" -ldflags "-X main.version=20150909+556e9c0.dev" mig.ninja/mig/mig-agent
	ln -fs "$(pwd)/bin/linux/amd64/mig-agent-20150909+556e9c0.dev""" "$(pwd)/bin/linux/amd64/mig-agent-latest"
	[ -x "bin/linux/amd64/mig-agent-20150909+556e9c0.dev""" ] && echo SUCCESS && exit 0
	SUCCESS

Built binaries will be placed in **bin/linux/amd64/** (or in a similar directory
if you are building on a different platform).

To cross-compile for a different platform, use the `ARCH` and `OS` make
variables:

.. code:: bash

	$ make mig-agent AGTCONF=conf/example.net.agents-conf.go BUILDENV=prod OS=windows ARCH=amd64

You can test the agent on the command line using the debug flag `-d`. When run
with `-d`, the agent will stay in foreground and print its activity to stdout.

.. code:: bash

	$ sudo ./bin/linux/amd64/mig-agent-20150909+556e9c0.dev -d
	[info] using builtin conf
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] leaving initChannels()
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] Logging routine initialized.
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] leaving findHostname()
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] Ident is Debian testing-updates sid
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] Init is upstart
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] leaving findOSInfo()
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] Found local address 172.21.0.3/20
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] Found local address fe80::3602:86ff:fe2b:6fdd/64
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] Found public ip 172.21.0.3
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] leaving initAgentID()
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] Loading permission named 'default'
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] Loading permission named 'agentdestroy'
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] leaving initACL()
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] AMQP: host=rabbitmq.mig.example.net, port=5671, vhost=mig
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] Loading AMQPS TLS parameters
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] Establishing connection to relay
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] leaving initMQ()
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] leaving initAgent()
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [info] Mozilla InvestiGator version 20150909+556e9c0.dev: started agent gator1
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] heartbeat '{"name":"gator1","queueloc":"linux.gator1.ft8dzivx8zxd1mu966li7fy4jx0v999cgfap4mxhdgj1v0zv","mode":"daemon","version":"20150909+556e9c0.dev","pid":2993,"starttime":"2015-09-09T10:43:30.871448608-04:00","destructiontime":"0001-01-01T00:00:00Z","heartbeatts":"2015-09-09T10:43:30.871448821-04:00","environment":{"init":"upstart","ident":"Debian testing-updates sid","os":"linux","arch":"amd64","isproxied":false,"addresses":["172.21.0.3/20","fe80::3602:86ff:fe2b:6fdd/64"],"publicip":"172.21.0.3"},"tags":{"operator":"example.net"}}'
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] Message published to exchange 'toschedulers' with routing key 'mig.agt.heartbeats' and body '{"name":"gator1","queueloc":"linux.gator1.ft8dzivx8zxd1mu966li7fy4jx0v999cgfap4mxhdgj1v0zv","mode":"daemon","version":"20150909+556e9c0.dev","pid":2993,"starttime":"2015-09-09T10:43:30.871448608-04:00","destructiontime":"0001-01-01T00:00:00Z","heartbeatts":"2015-09-09T10:43:30.871448821-04:00","environment":{"init":"upstart","ident":"Debian testing-updates sid","os":"linux","arch":"amd64","isproxied":false,"addresses":["172.21.0.3/20","fe80::3602:86ff:fe2b:6fdd/64"],"publicip":"172.21.0.3"},"tags":{"operator":"example.net"}}'
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] leaving initSocket()
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [debug] leaving publish()
	2015/09/09 10:43:30 - - - [info] Stat socket connected successfully on 127.0.0.1:61664
	^C2015/09/09 10:43:39 - - - [emergency] Shutting down agent: 'interrupt'
	2015/09/09 10:43:40 - - - [info] closing sendResults channel
	2015/09/09 10:43:40 - - - [info] closing parseCommands goroutine
	2015/09/09 10:43:40 - - - [info] closing runModule goroutine

The output above indicates that the agent successfully connected to Rabbitmq
and sent a heartbeat message. The scheduler will receive this heartbeat and
process it, but in order to mark the agent offline, the scheduler must whitelist
its queueloc value.

To do so, go back to the scheduler server and add the queueloc into
`/var/cache/mig/agents_whitelist.txt`. No need to restart the scheduler, it
is automatically taken into account.

.. code::

	$ echo 'linux.gator1.ft8dzivx8zxd1mu966li7fy4jx0v999cgfap4mxhdgj1v0zv' >> /var/cache/mig/agents_whitelist.txt

At the next run of the scheduler periodic routine, the agent will be marked
as `online` and show up in the dashboard counters. You can browse these counters
using the `mig-console`.

.. code::

	mig> status
	+------
	| Agents & Endpoints summary:
	| * 1 online agents on 1 endpoints
	+------

Run your first investigation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Get the `mig` command line from the upstream repository and run a simple
investigation that looks for a user in `/etc/passwd`.

.. code:: bash

	$ go get mig.ninja/mig/client/mig
	$ $GOPATH/bin/mig file -path /etc -name "^passwd$" -content "^root"
	1 agents will be targeted. ctrl+c to cancel. launching in 5 4 3 2 1 GO
	Following action ID 4885615083564.status=inflight.
	- 100.0% done in -2m17.141481302s
	1 sent, 1 done, 1 succeeded
	gator1 /etc/passwd [lastmodified:2015-08-31 16:15:05.547605529 +0000 UTC, mode:-rw-r--r--, size:2251] in search 's1'
	1 agent has found results

A single file is found, as expected.

Appendix A: Manual RabbitMQ Configuration
-----------------------------------------

All communications between schedulers and agents rely on RabbitMQ's AMQP
protocol. While MIG does not rely on the security of RabbitMQ to pass orders to
agents, an attacker that gains control to the message broker would be able to
listen to all messages passed between the various components. To prevent this,
RabbitMQ must provide a reasonable amount of protection, at several levels:

* All communications on the public internet are authenticated using client and
  server certificates. Since all agents share a single client certificate, this
  provides minimal security, and should only be used to make it harder for
  attackers to establish an AMQP connection with rabbitmq.

* Agents can only listen on their own queue. This is accomplished by randomizing
  the name of the agent queue.

* Agents can only publish to the `toschedulers` exchange. This is accomplished
  using tight Access Control rules to RabbitMQ.

Note that, even if a random agent manages to connect to the relay, the scheduler
will accept its registration only if it is present in the scheduler's whitelist.


1. On the rabbitmq server, create users:

	* **admin**, with the tag 'administrator'
	* **scheduler** , **agent** and **worker** with no tag

All users should have strong passwords. The scheduler password goes into the
configuration file `conf/mig-scheduler.cfg`, in `[mq] password`. The agent
password goes into `conf/mig-agent-conf.go`, in the agent `AMQPBROKER` dial
string. The admin password is, of course, for yourself.

.. code:: bash

   sudo rabbitmqctl add_user admin SomeRandomPassword
   sudo rabbitmqctl set_user_tags admin administrator

   sudo rabbitmqctl add_user scheduler SomeRandomPassword

   sudo rabbitmqctl add_user agent SomeRandomPassword

   sudo rabbitmqctl add_user worker SomeRandomPassword

You can list the users with the following command:

.. code:: bash

   sudo rabbitmqctl list_users

On fresh installation, rabbitmq comes with a `guest` user that as password
`guest` and admin privileges. You may you to delete that account.

.. code:: bash

	sudo rabbitmqctl delete_user guest

2. Create a 'mig' virtual host.

.. code:: bash

   sudo rabbitmqctl add_vhost mig
   sudo rabbitmqctl list_vhosts

3. Create permissions for the scheduler user. The scheduler is allowed to:
	- CONFIGURE:
		- declare the exchanges `toagents`, `toschedulers` and `toworkers`
		- declare and delete queues under `mig.agt.*`
	- WRITE:
		- publish into the exchanges `toagents` and `toworkers`
		- consume from queues `mig.agt.heartbeats` and `mig.agt.results`
	- READ:
		- declare the exchanges `toagents`, `toschedulers` and `toworkers`
		- consume from queues `mig.agt.heartbeats` and `mig.agt.results` bound
		  to the `toschedulers` exchange

.. code:: bash

	sudo rabbitmqctl set_permissions -p mig scheduler \
		'^(toagents|toschedulers|toworkers|mig\.agt\..*)$' \
		'^(toagents|toworkers|mig\.agt\.(heartbeats|results))$' \
		'^(toagents|toschedulers|toworkers|mig\.agt\.(heartbeats|results))$'

4. Create permissions for the agent use. The agent is allowed to:
	- CONFIGURE:
		- create any queue under `mig.agt.*`
	- WRITE:
		- publish to the `toschedulers` exchange
		- consume from queues under `mig.agt.*`
	- READ:
		- consume from queues under `mig.agt.*` bound to the `toagents`
		  exchange

.. code:: bash

	sudo rabbitmqctl set_permissions -p mig agent \
		'^mig\.agt\..*$' \
		'^(toschedulers|mig\.agt\..*)$' \
		'^(toagents|mig\.agt\..*)$'

5. Create permissions for the event workers. The workers are allowed to:
	- CONFIGURE:
		- declare queues under `migevent.*`
	- WRITE:
		- consume from queues under `migevent.*`
	- READ:
	    - consume from queues under `migevent.*` bound to the `toworkers`
		  exchange

.. code:: bash

	sudo rabbitmqctl set_permissions -p mig worker \
	'^migevent\..*$' \
	'^migevent(|\..*)$' \
	'^(toworkers|migevent\..*)$'

6. Start the scheduler, it shouldn't return any ACCESS error. You can also list
   the permissions with the command:

.. code:: bash

	$ sudo rabbitmqctl list_permissions -p mig | column -t
	Listing permissions in vhost "mig" ...
	agent      ^mig\\.agt\\..*$                                    ^(toschedulers|mig\\.agt\\..*)$                          ^(toagents|mig\\.agt\\..*)$
	scheduler  ^(toagents|toschedulers|toworkers|mig\\.agt\\..*)$  ^(toagents|toworkers|mig\\.agt\\.(heartbeats|results))$  ^(toagents|toschedulers|toworkers|mig\\.agt\\.(heartbeats|results))$
	worker     ^migevent\\..*$                                     ^migevent(|\\..*)$                                       ^(toworkers|migevent\\..*)$

RabbitMQ TLS configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The documentation from rabbitmq has a thorough explanation of SSL support in
rabbit at http://www.rabbitmq.com/ssl.html . Without going into too much
details, we need three things:

1. a PKI (and its public cert)

2. a server certificate and private key for rabbitmq itself

3. a client certificate and private key for the agents

You can obtain these three things on you own, or follow the openssl tutorial
from the rabbitmq documentation. Come back here when you have all three.

On the rabbitmq server, place the certificates under **/etc/rabbitmq/certs/**.

 ::

	/etc/rabbitmq/certs/
	├── cacert.pem
	├── migrelay1.example.net.key
	└── migrelay1.example.net.pem

Edit (or create) the configuration file of rabbitmq to reference the
certificates.

 ::

	[
	  {rabbit, [
		 {ssl_listeners, [5671]},
		 {ssl_options, [{cacertfile,"/etc/rabbitmq/certs/cacert.pem"},
						{certfile,"/etc/rabbitmq/certs/migrelay1.example.net.pem"},
						{keyfile,"/etc/rabbitmq/certs/migrelay1.example.net.key"},
						{verify,verify_peer},
						{fail_if_no_peer_cert,true}
		 ]}
	  ]}
	].

Queues mirroring
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, queues within a RabbitMQ cluster are located on a single node (the
node on which they were first declared). If that node goes down, the queue will
become unavailable. To mirror all MIG queues to all nodes of a rabbitmq cluster,
use the following policy:

.. code:: bash

	# rabbitmqctl -p mig set_policy mig-mirror-all "^mig\." '{"ha-mode":"all"}'
	Setting policy "mig-mirror-all" for pattern "^mig\\." to "{\"ha-mode\":\"all\"}" with priority "0" ...
	...done.

Cluster management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To create a cluster, all rabbitmq nodes must share a secret called erlang
cookie. The erlang cookie is located in `/var/lib/rabbitmq/.erlang.cookie`.
Make sure the value of the cookie is identical on all members of the cluster,
then tell one node to join another one:

.. code:: bash

	# rabbitmqctl stop_app
	Stopping node 'rabbit@ip-172-30-200-73' ...
	...done.

	# rabbitmqctl join_cluster rabbit@ip-172-30-200-42
	Clustering node 'rabbit@ip-172-30-200-73' with 'rabbit@ip-172-30-200-42' ...
	...done.

	# rabbitmqctl start_app
	Starting node 'rabbit@ip-172-30-200-73' ...
	...done.

To remove a dead node from the cluster, use the following command from any
active node of the running cluster.

.. code:: bash

	# rabbitmqctl forget_cluster_node rabbit@ip-172-30-200-84

If one node of the cluster goes down, and the agents have trouble reconnecting,
they may throw the error `NOT_FOUND - no binding mig.agt....`. That happens when
the binding in question exists but the 'home' node of the (durable) queue is not
alive. In case of a mirrored queue that would imply that all mirrors are down.
Essentially both the queue and associated bindings are in a limbo state at that
point - they neither exist nor do they not exist. `source`_

.. _`source`: http://rabbitmq.1065348.n5.nabble.com/Can-t-Bind-After-Upgrading-from-3-1-1-to-3-1-5-td29793.html

The safest thing to do is to delete all the queues on the cluster, and restart
the scheduler. The agents will restart themselves.

.. code:: bash

	# for queue in $(rabbitmqctl list_queues -p mig|grep ^mig|awk '{print $1}')
	do
		echo curl -i -u admin:adminpassword -H "content-type:application/json" \
		-XDELETE http://localhost:15672/api/queues/mig/$queue;
	done

(remove the `echo` in the command above, it's there as a safety for copy/paste
people).

Supporting more than 1024 connections
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you want more than 1024 clients, you may have to increase the max number of
file descriptors that rabbitmq is allowed to hold. On linux, increase `nofile`
in `/etc/security/limits.conf` as follow:

.. code:: bash

	rabbitmq - nofile 102400

Then, make sure than `pam_limits.so` is included in `/etc/pam.d/common-session`:

.. code:: bash

	session    required     pam_limits.so


Serving AMQPS on port 443
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To prevent yours agents from getting blocked by firewalls, it may be a good idea
to use port 443 for connections between agents and rabbitmq. However, rabbitmq
is not designed to run on a privileged port. The solution, then, is to use
iptables to redirect the port on the rabbitmq server.

.. code:: bash

	iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -i eth0 -p tcp --dport 443 -j REDIRECT --to-port 5671 -m comment --comment "Serve RabbitMQ on HTTPS port"

Appendix B: Scheduler configuration reference
---------------------------------------------

Spool directories
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The scheduler keeps copies of work in progress in a set of spool directories.
It will take of creating the spool if it doesn't exist. The spool shouldn't grow
in size beyond a few megabytes as the scheduler tries to do regular housekeeping,
but it is still preferable to put it in a large enough location.

.. code:: bash

	sudo chown mig-user /var/cache/mig -R

Whitelist
~~~~~~~~~

Agents's queuelocs must be listed in a whitelist file for the scheduler to accept
their registrations. The location of the whitelist is configurable, but a good
place for it is in `/var/cache/mig/agents_whitelist.txt`. The file contains one
queueloc string on each line. The agent queueloc is taken from the hostname of the
endpoint the agent runs on, plus a random value only known to the endpoint and
the MIG platform.

.. code::

	linux.agent123.example.net.58b3mndjmbb00
	windows.db4.sub.example.com.56b2andxmyb00

If the scheduler receives a heartbeat from an agent that is not present in the
whitelist, it will log an error message. An operator can process the logs and
add agents to the whitelist manually.

.. code::

	Dec 17 23:39:10 ip-172-30-200-53 mig-scheduler[9181]: - - - [warning] getHeartbeats(): Agent 'linux.somehost.example.net.4vjs8ubqo0100' is not authorized

For environments that are particularly dynamic, it is possible to use regexes
in the whitelist. This is done by prepending `re:` to the whitelist entry.

.. code::

	re:linux.server[0-9]{1,4}.example.net.[a-z0-9]{13}

Keep the list of regexes short. Until MIG implements a better agent validation
mechanisms, the whitelist is reread for every registration, and regexes are
recompiled every time. On a busy platform, this can be done hundreds of times
per second and induce heavy cpu usage.

Database tuning
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**sslmode**

`sslmode` can take the values `disable`, `require` (no cert verification)
and `verify-full` (requires cert verification). A proper installation should
use `verify-full`.

.. code::

	[postgres]
		sslmode = "verify-full"

**macconn**

The scheduler has an extra parameter to control the max number of database
connections it can use at once. It's important to keep that number relatively
low, and increase it with the size of your infrastructure. The default value is
set to `10`, and a good production value is `100`.

.. code::

	[postgres]
		maxconn = 10

If the DB insertion rate is lower than the agent heartbeats rate, the scheduler
will receive more heartbeats per seconds than it can insert in the database.
When that happens, you will see the insertion lag increase in the query below:

.. code:: sql

	mig=> select NOW() - heartbeattime as "insertion lag"
	mig-> from agents order by heartbeattime desc limit 1;
	  insertion lag
	-----------------
	 00:00:00.212257
	(1 row)

A healthy insertion lag should be below one second. If the lag increases, and
your DB server still isn't stuck at 100% CPU, try increasing the value of
`maxconn`. It will cause the scheduler to use more insertion threads.

Logging
~~~~~~~

The scheduler can log to stdout, syslog, or a target file. It will run in
foreground if the logging mode is set to 'stdout'.
For the scheduler to run as a daemon, set the mode to 'file' or 'syslog'.

 ::

	[logging]
	; select a mode between 'stdout', 'file' and 'syslog
	; for syslog, logs go into local3
	mode		= "syslog"
	level		= "debug"
	host		= "localhost"
	port		= 514
	protocol	= "udp"

AMQPS configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

TLS support between the scheduler and rabbitmq is optional but strongly
recommended. To enable it, generate a client certificate and set the
[mq] configuration section of the scheduler as follow:

 ::

	[mq]
		host = "relay1.mig.example.net"
		port = 5671
		user = "scheduler"
		pass = "secretrabbitmqpassword"
		vhost = "mig"

	; TLS options
		usetls  = true
		cacert  = "/etc/mig/scheduler/cacert.pem"
		tlscert = "/etc/mig/scheduler/scheduler-amqps.pem"
		tlskey  = "/etc/mig/scheduler/scheduler-amqps-key.pem"

Make sure to use **fully qualified paths** otherwise the scheduler will fail to
load them after going in the background.

Collector
~~~~~~~~~

The Collector is a routine ran periodically by the scheduler to inspect the
content of its spool. It will load files that may have been missed by the file
notification routine, and delete old files after a grace period.

 ::

	[collector]
		; frequency at which the collector runs
		freq = "60s"

Periodic
~~~~~~~~

Periodic routines are run at `freq` interval to do housekeeping and accounting,
cleaning up the spool, marking agents that stopped sending hearbeats idle or
offline, computing agents stats or detecting hosts running multiple agents.

.. code::

	; the periodic runs less often that
	; the collector and does cleanup and DB updates
	[periodic]
		; frequency at which the periodic jobs run
		freq = "87s"

		; delete finished actions, commands and invalids after
		; this period has passed
		deleteafter = "360h"

		; run a rabbitmq unused queues cleanup job at this frequency
		; this is DB & amqp intensive so don't run it too often
		queuescleanupfreq = "24h"

PGP
~~~

The scheduler uses a PGP key to issue termination order on hosts that run
multiple agents. Due to the limited scope of that key, it is stored in the
database to facilitate deployment and provisioning of multiple schedulers.

Upon startup, the scheduler will look for an investigator named `migscheduler`
and retrieve its private key to use it in action signing. If no investigator is
found, it generates one and inserts it into the database, such that other
schedulers can use it as well.

At the time, the scheduler public key must be manually added into the agent
configuration. This will be changed in the future when ACLs and investigators
can be dynamically distributed to agents.

In the ACL of the agent configuration file `conf/mig-agent-conf.go`:

 ::

	var AGENTACL = [...]string{
	`{
		"agentdestroy": {
			"minimumweight": 1,
			"investigators": {
				"MIG Scheduler": {
					"fingerprint": "1E644752FB76B77245B1694E556CDD7B07E9D5D6",
					"weight": 1
				}
			}
		}
	}`,
	}

And add the public PGP key of the scheduler as well:

 ::

	// PGP public keys that are authorized to sign actions
	var PUBLICPGPKEYS = [...]string{
	`
	-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
	Version: GnuPG v1. Name: MIG Scheduler

	mQENBFF/69EBCADe79sqUKJHXTMW3tahbXPdQAnpFWXChjI9tOGbgxmse1eEGjPZ
	QPFOPgu3O3iij6UOVh+LOkqccjJ8gZVLYMJzUQC+2RJ3jvXhti8xZ1hs2iEr65Rj
	zUklHVZguf2Zv2X9Er8rnlW5xzplsVXNWnVvMDXyzx0ufC00dDbCwahLQnv6Vqq8
	BdUCSrvo/r7oAims8SyWE+ZObC+rw7u01Sut0ctnYrvklaM10+zkwGNOTszrduUy
	.....
	`
	}

Appendix C: Advanced agent configuration
----------------------------------------

Agent external configuration file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It is possible to use a configuration file with the agent. The location of the
file can be specified using the `-c` flag of the agent's binary. If no flag is
specific, the agent will look for a configuration file at
`/etc/mig/mig-agent.cfg`. If no file is found at this location, the builtin
parameters are used.

The following parameters are **not** controlable by the configuration file:

* list of investigators public keys in `PUBLICPGPKEYS`
* list of access control lists in `AGENTACL`

All other parameters can be overriden in the configuration file. Check out the
sample file `mig-agent.cfg.inc` in the **conf** folder.

Building agents packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Makefile in the MIG repository contains targets that build RPM, DEB, DMG
and MSI files to facilitate the distribution of MIG Agents. These targets rely
on FPM to build packages, so make sure you have ruby and fpm installed before
proceeding.

Note that due to various packaging requirements, it is easier to build a package
on the environment it is targeted for: rhel for RPMs, debian for DEBs, macos
for DMGs and windows for MSIs.

The make targets are:

* `deb-agent` to build debian packages
* `rpm-agent` to build rpm packages
* `dmg-agent` to build dmg packages
* `msi-agent` to build msi packages (experimental)

.. code:: bash

	$ make deb-agent AGTCONF=conf/linuxwall-mig-agent-conf.go
	mkdir -p bin/linux/amd64
	echo building mig-agent for linux/amd64
	[...]
	fpm -C tmp -n mig-agent --license GPL --vendor mozilla --description "Mozilla InvestiGator Agent" \
			-m "Mozilla OpSec" --url http://mig.mozilla.org --architecture x86_64 -v 20150909+556e9c0.dev \
			--after-remove tmp/agent_remove.sh --after-install tmp/agent_install.sh \
			-s dir -t deb .
	Created package {:path=>"mig-agent_20150909+556e9c0.dev_amd64.deb"}

	$ ls -al mig-agent_20150909+556e9c0.dev_amd64.deb
	-rw-r--r-- 1 ulfr ulfr 3454772 Sep  9 10:55 mig-agent_20150909+556e9c0.dev_amd64.deb
